---
title: "CC 315 Syllabus S23"
weight: 54
pre: "4. "
---

## CC 315 - Data Structures & Algorithms II


### Instructor Contact Information

* **Instructor:** Emily Alfs-Votipka (emilyalfs AT ksu DOT edu)<br> _I use **she/her** pronouns. Feel free to share your own pronouns with me, and I'll do my best to use them!_
* **Office:** DUE 2161
* **Virtual Office Hours:** Schedule a meeting with me: https://calendly.com/emilyalfs Appointments held via [Zoom](https://ksu.zoom.us/).


#### Preferred Methods of Communication:

* **For Course Related Questions**: cc315-help AT KSUemailProd DOT onmicrosoft DOT com
  * Or from your KSU email, you can type '**cc315-help**' in the 'To' Field then hit your Tab key to auto-complete the address.
* **Other Questions**: emilyalfs AT ksu DOT edu 

### Graduate Teaching Assistants

* TBD

### Prerequisites

* CC 310 - Data Structures & Algorithms I 

### Course Overview

Advanced data structures and related algorithms. Formal software development methods and software engineering fundamentals. Introduction to requirements analysis processes that provide the specification of algorithmic requirements.

### Course Description

This course introduces advanced data structures, such as trees, graphs, and heaps. Several new algorithms using these data structures are covered. Students also learn software development methods and software engineering fundamentals and use those skills to develop projects of increasing size and scope effectively.

### Major Course Topics

* Data Structures
  * Trees
  * Graphs
  * Heaps
* Algorithms
  * Graph Searching
  * Shortest Path
  * Minimal Spanning Tree
* Requirements Analysis
* Application to Domain Areas

###  Course Structure

These courses are being taught 100% online, and each module is self-paced. There may be some bumps in the road as we refine the overall course structure. Students will work at their own pace through a set of modules, with approximately one module being due each week. Material will be provided in the form of recorded videos, online tutorials, links to online resources, and discussion prompts. Each module will include a coding project or assignment, many of which will be graded automatically through Codio. Assignments may also include portions which will be graded manually via Canvas or other tools.

### Grading

In theory, each student begins the course with an A. As you submit work, you can either maintain your A (for good work) or chip away at it (for less adequate or incomplete work). In practice, each student starts with 0 points in the gradebook and works upward toward a final point total earned out of the possible number of points. In this course, each assignment constitutes a portion of the final grade, as detailed below:

* 70% - Codio Programming Projects
* 30% - Codio Tutorials and Quizzes

Up to 5% of the total grade in the class is available as extra credit. See the **Extra Credit - Bug Bounty** assignment for details.

Letter grades will be assigned following the standard scale:

* 90% - 100% &rarr; A
* 80% - 89.99% &rarr; B
* 70% - 79.99% &rarr; C
* 60% - 69.99% &rarr; D
* 00% - 59.99% &rarr; F

### Late Work


{{% notice warning %}}
Read this late work policy very carefully! If you are unsure how to interpret it, please contact the instructors via the help email. Not understanding the policy does not mean that it won't apply to you!
{{% /notice %}}

Since this course is entirely online, students may work at any time and at their own pace through the modules. However, to keep everyone on track, there will be approximately one module due each week. Each graded item in the module will have a specific due date specified. **All of the components of a module will be subject to the late policy if the module is submitted late. This penalty will be assessed via a single separate assignment entry in the gradebook, containing the sum of all grade reductions in the course for that student.** 

**The following table outlines the highest possible score that a module can earn based on when it is complete** 

|  | Tuesday | Wednesday | Thursday | Friday |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Before or at 11:59PM CST | 100% | 90% | 80% | 70% |
| After 11:59PM CST | 90% | 80% | 70% | 60% |

The table reads as: The assignments of a module turned in on Saturday before midnight can receive **at most** 80% of the possible points.

Assignments which are submitted late but score below the threshold will not receive a penalty. For example, if a module is completed on Saturday afternoon and the project scores 75/100, then no penalty will be received. 

For the purposes of recordkeeping, the submission time of the confirmation quiz in each module will be used to establish the completion time of the entire module in case of a discrepancy. This is because Codio may update submission times when assignments are regraded, but the quiz in Canvas should only be completed once.

However, even if a module is not submitted on time, it must still be completed before a student is allowed to begin the next module. So, students should take care not to get too far behind, as it may be very difficult to catch up.

Finally, all course work must be submitted on or before the last day of the semester in which the student is enrolled in the course in order for it to be graded on time.

If you have extenuating circumstances, please discuss them with the instructor as soon as they arise so other arrangements can be made. If you find that you are getting behind in the class, you are encouraged to speak to the instructor for options to make up missed work.

### Incomplete Policy

Students should strive to complete this course in its entirety before the end of the semester in which they are enrolled. However, since retaking the course would be costly and repetitive for students, we would like to give students a chance to succeed with a little help rather than immediately fail students who are struggling.

If you are unable to complete the course in a timely manner, please contact the instructor to discuss an incomplete grade. Incomplete grades are given solely at the instructor's discretion. See the official [K-State Grading Policy](https://www.k-state.edu/registrar/students/academicpolicy/#GRADING) for more information. In general, _poor time management alone is not a sufficient reason for an incomplete grade_.

Unless otherwise noted in writing on a signed [Incomplete Agreement Form](https://www.k-state.edu/registrar/faculty-staff/forms/Incomplete%20agreement%20form.docx), the following stipulations apply to any incomplete grades given in Computational Core courses:

1. Students may receive at most two incompletes in Computational Core courses throughout their time in the program
2. Students will be given 6 calendar weeks from the end of the enrolled semester's finals week to complete the course
3. Any modules in a future CC course which depend on incomplete work will not be accessible until the previous course is finished
  1. For example, if a student is given an incomplete in CC 210, then all modules in CC 310 will be inaccessible until CC 210 is complete
4. Students understand that access to instructor and GTA assistance may be limited after the end of an academic semester due to holidays and other obligations
5. If a student fails to resolve an incomplete grade after 6 weeks, they will be assigned an 'F' in the course. In addition, they will be dropped from any other Computational Core courses which require the failed course as a prerequisite or corequisite.

### Recommended Texts & Supplies

To participate in this course, students must have access to a modern web browser and broadband internet connection. All course materials will be provided via Canvas and Codio. Modules may also contain links to external resources for additional information, such as programming language documentation.

### Subject to Change

The details in this syllabus are not set in stone. Due to the flexible nature of this class, adjustments may need to be made as the semester progresses, though they will be kept to a minimum. If any changes occur, the changes will be posted on the Canvas page for this course and emailed to all students.

{{< syllabus >}}